Thus far, we always used default inputs, default controls html gives us, there is nothing wrong with
that.
Chances are high that this will cover all you need
but let's say you want to build your own,
you want to build your own input, here
I want to build a little switch which I can toggle between on and off
and to do this, I will build my own component which has this logic in it,
let's start with that. To build our own component which works as an input,
we have to understand what v-model does behind the scenes.
I'll explain it here at
the user data field.
V-model does two things behind the scenes,
it binds to the value with colon value
or of course the longer form would be v-bind value.
So it binds the value of that and it binds it of course to user data e-mail,
it also simply gives us the @input listener or of course @change
if we use the modifier, the lazy modifier but here, I'll use @input which is the default.
And here it then listens to changes where it then simply sets user data
email equal to event,
that's the normal event the dom kind of creates for us, the normal javascript event, there we want to get
access to this element which was the root for this event, the target, this input field and then value.
Now with this setup, what you will see is that if I go back and I enter an email address here, it still
appears down there,
so we get the same behavior as before,
if I remove the M, it also updates there.
So I get the same behavior,
now that's my manual v-model,
it's the same thing v-model does behind the scenes
but just now in the longer form, I'll leave it like this so that we can always see that. Now that we know
how v-model works behind the scenes, we know how our own component has to work to be able to be usable
with v-model,
it has to have a prop named value so that v-model is able to pass a value into our component and
it has to emit an event called input to allow v-model to react to that.
Well with these two information pieces, we can create our own component,
I'll name it switch,
so a switch.vue file will house it, here I'll have a template and I'll need a script and I'll also
need some styling, whoops, style like that. With that let's work on our own component,
set up a nice little template, html template and styling and then add the javascript logic to make it
work correctly.